chore(gha): Implement a reusable workflow which allows retriggering g… (#143)
camunda/infra-global-github-actions: rerun-failed-run/README.md

# rerun-failed-run

> This reusable workflow can be used to retrigger in GitHub Actions workflows to automatically retrigger them if they failed and contain a specific error message in their build logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reusable workflow can be used in GitHub Actions workflows to automatically retrigger them if they failed and contain a specific error message in their build logs.
```

## Usage

> The workflow can be invoked with the aid of the GitHub CLI from another workflow. In case the calling workflow does not belong in the same repository the designated GitHub App Token should be generated in order to allow the invocation. For that purpose, a github app is already set up, and its credentials can be found in the following Vault secret paths:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workflow can be invoked with the aid of the GitHub CLI from another workflow. In case the calling workflow is not in the same repository, the designated GitHub App Token should be generated to allow the invocation. For that purpose, a GitHub app is already set up, and its credentials can be found in the following Vault secret paths:
```

```
secret/data/products/infra/ci/retrigger-gha-workflow RETRIGGER_APP_KEY;
secret/data/products/infra/ci/retrigger-gha-workflow RETRIGGER_APP_ID;
```

> You can customize how many times you want the workflow to retrigger your job by configuring the number of attempts in the job level. See th example provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify how many times you want the workflow to retrigger your job by configuring the number of attempts at the job level. See the example provided
```

below for more information.

> 

Reviewer: I'd also add a disclaimer that the retry limit must always be specified (otherwise there's a risk or re-running the original workflow forever)

## Inputs

| Input name               | Description                                                                                                                   |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| run_id (required)        | The ID of the workflow run to retrigger.                                                                                      |
| error_message (required) | Custom error message to look for in the logs                                                                                  |
| repository (required)    | GitHub repository calling this reusable workflow, in the format ORG/REPO_NAME (example: `camunda/infra-global-github-action`) |

### Workflow Example
```yaml
---
jobs:

>  rerun:

Reviewer: I think the name `rerun` is confusing here (not immediately clear whether it's the job to be rerun or the job to orchestrate a rerun of another job), can it be something more generic? like `job1` or similar?

Author: yeah this indeed makes sense, they should align

  runs-on: gcp-core-2-default
  steps:
    - name: Echo dummy text
      run: echo "dummy text"

 rerun-failed-jobs:
    needs:

>       - job1

Reviewer: above you're calling the job `rerun` but here it's `rerun`

>     if: failure() && fromJSON(github.run_attempt) < 3

Reviewer: let's add an explicit comment here that `fromJSON(github.run_attempt) < 3` is used a limitator to not retry the build more than 3 times (and is very important to have this condition)

Author: yeah that is true

# rerun-failed-run

> This reusable workflow is aimed to target runs which have failed due to a specific error message and retrigger them. To do so, the workflow utilizes the

Author: true this is much better

id of a run as well as the error message which needs to be targeted.

## Usage

The workflow can be invoked with the aid of the github cli from another workflow. In case the calling workflow does not belong in the same repository a
Github App Token should be generated in order to allow the invokation. For that purpose, a github app is already set up and the necessary `app id` and
`app key` can be found in the following paths in Vault:

```
secret/data/products/infra/ci/retrigger-gha-workflow RETRIGGER_APP_KEY;
secret/data/products/infra/ci/retrigger-gha-workflow RETRIGGER_APP_ID;
```

> Additionally, in order to allow the workflow to be applied in a number of repositories and error messages, it is necessary to provide in the inputs not only

Author: I think we can drop this then since it is kind of implied already that someone needs to specify these inputs

(example would be `camunda/infra-global-github-action`). Moreover, the error message which needs to be targeted shall also be supplied in the inputs as string. As an example,
if you wish to rerun a workflow which has been erroring due to preemption the string `The runner has received a shutdown signal. This can happen when the runner service is stopped, or a manually started runner is canceled.`
shall be supplied on the `error_message`.

Lastly, you can customize how many times you want the workflow to retrigger your job by configuring the number of attempts in the job level. See th example provided
below for more information.

## Inputs

| Input name               | Description                                                                                   |
|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| run_id (required)        | The ID of the workflow run to retrigger.                                                      |
| error_message (required) | Custom error message to look for in the logs                                                  |

> | repository (required)    | GitHub repository in the format ORG/REPO_NAME (example: `camunda/infra-global-github-action`) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| repository (required)    | GitHub repository calling this reusable workflow, in the format ORG/REPO_NAME (example: `camunda/infra-global-github-action`) |
```

### Workflow Example
```yaml
---

>  rerun-failed-jobs:

Reviewer: I suggest rewriting this example as a full workflow, right now there's just `rerun-failed-jobs` defined. `job1`, `job2`, `job3` are mentioned, but it's not clear on what they are doing exactly.

I guess for the demo purposes of the readme, only `job1` would be sufficient, and it can be as simple as a job that just fails with a specific error message that we later look for in the `rerun-failed-jobs` example.

Author: makes sense, i made the `job1` just output a dummy string
